Identifying and
Exploiting Directory Traversals
A search for directory traversals begins
with the examination of URL query strings
and form bodies in search of values
that appear as file references,
including the most common indicator:
file extensions in URL query strings.
Once we’ve identified
some likely candidates,
we can modify these values
to attempt to reference files that should
be readable by any user on the system,
such as /etc/passwd on
Linux or boot.ini on Windows.
Let’s return to the sample application
on our Windows 10 lab machine
to demonstrate this vulnerability.
We’ll click on “Menu” to show the sample menu.
After clicking the “Menu” link,
the URL is updated and contains
a parameter named file
with a value of “current_menu.php”.
The file extension on a parameter value
is usually a good indication that
we should investigate further
because it suggests text or code is
being included from a different resource.
Most directory traversals
are not this obvious
but a fair number of old PHP applications
load pages in a similar fashion.
Without knowing what the code
looks like, we can start poking at it
by changing the value of file.
If we change “current_menu.php”
to something like “old.php”,
we get an error instead of the menu:
Notice that the error message
indicates the server failed
to open a file for inclusion
and returns a full file path.
This indicates that we can likely control
the content being rendered in the page
by manipulating the file parameter.
If we didn’t already know we
were targeting a Windows host,
this error message would give it away.
OS information is crucial when
exploiting a directory traversal.
Since we know the application
is running on a Windows system,
let’s update our payload to
target the Windows hosts file.
This is a useful file to
target on Windows systems
since it is reliable and
accessible by any user.
Let’s change the parameter value to
the hosts file and submit the URL.
After submitting this URL in our browser,
the page includes the
content of the hosts file.
Nice.
It appears this directory
traversal vulnerability
allows us to read files of any type,
including those outside
the web root directory.